Doc-12499_Enterprise Eventing Statistics In Capella (#628)
couchbaselabs/docs-devex: modules/eventing/pages/eventing-statistics.adoc

= Statistics

> :description: You can fetch Eventing Statistics for each deployed Function from an Eventing node using the Web Console or using the Capella UI.

Reviewer: `Web console` and `Capella UI` are synonymous here. Let's remove the usage of `web console`.

```suggestion
:description: You can fetch Eventing Statistics for each deployed Function from an Eventing node using the Capella UI.
```

= Statistics

> :description: Eventing Statistics, for each deployed Function, can be fetched from an Eventing node using the Web Console or using the REST API.

Reviewer 2: REST API for Eventing is not currently available in Capella

```suggestion
:description: You can fetch Eventing statistics for each Function from the Eventing Service using the Capella UI.
```

:page-edition: Enterprise Edition

[abstract]
{description}

> *Via the Web Console's Eventing page*

Reviewer 2: I don't know why this isn't a heading? (I know it's like that in the Server branches also, but let's fix it here)

```suggestion
== Via the Capella UI Eventing tab
```

> As of 7.0.0, Eventing Statistics can be displayed in the Eventing main UI page for each deployed Function by clicking on the Function name to expand the Function controls. 

Reviewer 2: No need to mention the version number here. In any case, 7.0.0 was released so long ago that it's no longer supported.

```suggestion
Eventing Statistics can be displayed in the Eventing tab for each deployed Function by clicking on the Function name to expand the Function controls. 
```

> These three key metrics or Deployment Statistics are updated every 10 seconds by default and displayed as numeric values:

Reviewer 2: There are clearly four of them

```suggestion
These 4 key metrics or Deployment Statistics are updated every 10 seconds by default and displayed as numeric values:
```

* *success*	- displays the number of processed Functions and also Eventing timer callbacks.
* *failure*	- displays the number of failures while processing the Eventing Function code.

> * *timeout*	- displays the number of Functions which have encountered a timeout condition.	

Reviewer 2: Add the **backlog** statistic. Suggested wording only; double-check with SMEs what this statistic represents.

```suggestion
* *timeout*	- displays the number of Functions which have encountered a timeout condition.
* *backlog* - displays the number of Functions in the backlog.
```

> // image::stats_00_counts.png[,100%]

Reviewer 2: Just delete the `image` command. If we ever need to put the image back, we can just revert this change.

Make sure you delete the image file as well, so it's not cluttering up the `images` directory

```suggestion
```

> In addition to the per Function numeric statistics above as of 7.0.0 there are the rate charts that can be accessed from any deployed function. 

Reviewer 2: There are no charts in the Eventing tab, but you can access the Eventing log. Need to mention this.

```suggestion
In addition to the numeric statistics, you can also click the Log button (icon:file-lines[]) to display the log for any deployed function. 
```

Author: Done.

These charts are lagged by 30 seconds.

* *success*	- displays the rate of processed Functions and also Eventing timer callbacks.
* *failure*	- displays the rate of failures while processing the Function Eventing Function code.

> * *timeout*	- displays the rate of Functions which have encountered a timeout condition.

Reviewer 2: I don't see these charts? Delete this bulleted list

Author: Deleted.

> // image::stats_01_counts_and_charts.png[,100%]

Reviewer 2: Just delete the `image` command, and make sure you delete the image file from the `images` directory as well.

```suggestion
```

> In addition, per Function Statistics can be accessed via the Web Console or using the REST API.

Reviewer 2: I don't think either of these are true. Delete this para

```suggestion
```

> *Via the Web Console's custom Dashboards*

Reviewer 2: I looked in the Capella UI Monitoring page and I saw no monitoring charts for Eventing, even in the Deep Dive section. Double-check with SMEs if this is correct. If it is, delete this entire section down to line 59, **Via the REST API**.

Make sure you delete the image files `stats_02_add_charts.png` and `stats_02_system_charts.png` also.

Author: Deleted

= Statistics
:description: You can fetch Eventing Statistics for each deployed Function from an Eventing node using the Capella UI.
:page-edition: Enterprise Edition

[abstract]
{description}

== Via the Capella UI Eventing Tab

Eventing Statistics can be displayed in the Eventing tab for each deployed Function by clicking on the Function name to expand the Function controls. 
The following key metrics or Deployment Statistics are updated every 10 seconds by default and displayed as numeric values:

* *success*	- displays the number of processed Functions and also Eventing timer callbacks.
* *failure*	- displays the number of failures while processing the Eventing Function code.
* *timeout*	- displays the number of Functions which have encountered a timeout condition.

> * *backlog* - displays the number of Functions in the backlog. 

Reviewer: The above definitions of the deployment statistics seem to be inaccurate. Please change the definitions to the following:

**success** — displays the number of times the function's handler code executed successfully, including mutation and timer callbacks.
**failure** — displays the number of times the function encountered an error during execution
**timeout** — displays the number of times the function's execution was aborted because it exceeded the maximum allowed execution time.
**backlog** — displays the number of mutations waiting to be processed by the function.

Author: Done. Kindly review and approve.

* Successful Function Invocations
* Failed Function Invocations

> * Eventing Timeouts

Reviewer: Custom dashboard charts are specific to Server and not for Capella if I'm not wrong. Hence, this section doesn't seem to be applicable here. We should remove the `Via the Web Console's Custom Dashboards` section.

Note, you may click and expand any of the above graphs for any deployed Eventing Function or any Dashboard chart.

////

> *Via the REST API*

Reviewer 2: The Eventing REST API is not available in Capella, and there is currently no equivalent functionality in the Data API or the Management API. Delete this entire section, from here to the end of the page.
